.github/README.md, before:

# tyk-k8s-demo
<!-- Tell other people why your project is useful, what they can do with your project, and how they can use it.
As explained in GitHub it typically includes information on:
1. What the project does
2. Why the project is useful
3. How users can get started with the project
4. Where users can get help with your project
5. Who maintains and contributes to the project
For more details check GitHub [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-readmes)

PLEASE CHANGE THIS FILE NAME TO BE "README.md" so GitHub can automatically surface it to repository visitors.
-->

[![Smoke Tests](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-demo/actions/workflows/smoke-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-demo/actions/workflows/smoke-test.yml)

## Alpha
This product is in Alpha mode - breaking changes could be introduced, the product is not battle-hardened yet.

## About
Will allow you to deploy the entire Tyk stack for POC on helm and docker.
  
## Purpose
Minimizing the amount of effort you need to stand up you Tyk infra.
  
## Getting started  

#### Prerequisites
- Helm
- jq

#### Possible deployments
- `tyk-pro`: Tyk pro self-managed single region
- `tyk-cp`: Tyk pro self-managed multi region control plane
- `tyk-edge`: Tyk hybrid edges
- `tyk-gateway`: Tyk oss self-managed single region

#### Usage
```
Usage:
  ./up.sh [flags] [command]

Available Commands:
  tyk-pro
  tyk-cp
  tyk-hybrid
  tyk-gateway

Flags:
  -f, --flavor    	enum   	 k8s environment flavor. This option can be set 'openshift' and defaults to 'vanilla'
  -o, --operator  	bool   	 install the Tyk Operator
  -p, --portal    	bool   	 install the Tyk Enterprise Portal
  -n, --namespace 	string 	 namespace the tyk stack will be installed in, defaults to 'tyk'
  -d, --database  	enum   	 database the tyk stack will use. This option can be set 'postgres' and defaults to 'mongo'
  -r, --redis     	enum   	 the redis mode that tyk stack will use. This option can be set 'redis-cluster', 'redis-sentinel' and defaults to 'redis'
```

Commit message:

Update readme and usage prints

.github/README.md, after:

# tyk-k8s-demo
<!-- Tell other people why your project is useful, what they can do with your project, and how they can use it.
As explained in GitHub it typically includes information on:
1. What the project does
2. Why the project is useful
3. How users can get started with the project
4. Where users can get help with your project
5. Who maintains and contributes to the project
For more details check GitHub [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-readmes)

PLEASE CHANGE THIS FILE NAME TO BE "README.md" so GitHub can automatically surface it to repository visitors.
-->

[![Smoke Tests](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-demo/actions/workflows/smoke-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-demo/actions/workflows/smoke-test.yml)

## Alpha
This product is in Alpha mode - breaking changes could be introduced, the product is not battle-hardened yet.

## About
Will allow you to deploy the entire Tyk stack for POC on helm and docker.
  
## Purpose
Minimizing the amount of effort you need to stand up you Tyk infra.
  
## Getting started  

#### Prerequisites
- Helm
- jq

#### Possible deployments
- `tyk-pro`: Tyk pro self-managed single region
- `tyk-cp`: Tyk pro self-managed multi region control plane
- `tyk-edge`: Tyk hybrid edges
- `tyk-gateway`: Tyk oss self-managed single region

### Redis Options
- `redis`: Bitnami Redis deployment
- `redis-cluster`: Bitnami Redis Cluster deployment
- `redis-sentinel`: Bitnami Redis Sentinel deployment

### Database Options
- `mongo`: mongo database as a Tyk backend
- `postgres`: postgres database as a Tyk backend

#### Usage
```
Usage:
  ./up.sh [flags] [command]

Available Commands:
  tyk-pro
  tyk-cp
  tyk-hybrid
  tyk-gateway

Flags:
  -v, --verbose   	bool   	 set log level to debug
  -p, --portal    	bool   	 install the Tyk Enterprise Portal
  -o, --operator  	bool   	 install the Tyk Operator
  -n, --namespace 	string 	 namespace the tyk stack will be installed in, defaults to 'tyk'
  -f, --flavor    	enum   	 k8s environment flavor. This option can be set 'openshift' and defaults to 'vanilla'
  -r, --redis     	enum   	 the redis mode that tyk stack will use. This option can be set 'redis-cluster', 'redis-sentinel' and defaults to 'redis'
  -d, --database  	enum   	 database the tyk stack will use. This option can be set 'postgres' and defaults to 'mongo'
```

```
Usage:
  ./down.sh [flags]

Flags:
  -v, --verbose   	bool   	 set log level to debug
  -n, --namespace 	string 	 namespace the tyk stack will be installed in, defaults to 'tyk'
  -p, --ports     	bool   	 disconnect port connections only
```
